What Factors Affect Laptop Computer Prices?. Generally, the following factors affect the prices of laptops.

Several different factors can affect laptop computer prices. These factors include the brand of computer and the number of options and add-ons included in the computer package. In addition, the amount of memory and the speed of the processor can also affect pricing. Though less common, some consumers spend additional money to purchase a computer based on the overall “look” and design of the system.

In many cases, name brand computers are more expensive than generic versions. This price increase often has more to do with name recognition than any actual superiority of the product. One major difference between name brand and generic systems is that in most cases, name brand computers offer better warranties than generic versions. Having the option of returning a computer that is malfunctioning is often enough of an incentive to encourage many consumers to spend more money.

Functionality is an important factor in determining laptop computer prices. A computer with more memory often performs better for a longer time than a computer with less memory. In addition, hard drive space is also crucial, and the size of the hard drive usually affects pricing. Many consumers may also look for digital video drivers and other types of recording devices that may affect the laptop computer prices.

Most computers come with some software pre-installed. In most cases, the more software that is installed on a computer, the more expensive it is. This is especially true if the installed programs are from well-established and recognizable software publishers. Those considering purchasing a new laptop computer should be aware that many of the pre-installed programs may be trial versions only, and will expire within a certain time period. In order to keep the programs, a code will need to be purchased, and then a permanent version of the software can be downloaded.

-Many consumers who are purchasing a new computer are buying an entire package. In addition to the computer itself, these systems typically include a monitor, keyboard, and mouse. Some packages may even include a printer or digital camera. The number of extras included in a computer package usually affects laptop computer prices.

Some industry leaders in computer manufacturing make it a selling point to offer computers in sleek styling and in a variety of colors. They may also offer unusual or contemporary system design. Though this is less important to many consumers, for those who do value “looks,” this type of system may be well worth the extra cost.

KEY INSIGHTS DERIVED FROM THE ANALYSIS. 
NOTE: Each insight is backed by  visualizations as shown below.

1. Conclusion: Brand Stats
Asus topped the laptop market by 28.3%
Dell, Lenovo, HP have almost eqaul market share
Apple comes at 7th position
Below brands needs to increase products(products less then 5):
'LG','Vaio', 'realme', 'Nokia', 'Infinix', 'ALIENWARE', 'Smartron', 'lenovo', 'MICROSOFT', 'RedmiBook', 'Mi', 'SAMSUNG', 'iball'

2. Conclusion: Top Models Stats
Vivobook model is the most demanded model,
whereas, Inspiron, Pivillion, IdeaPad comes in top 5
Around 19.3% are missing models, which may increase or decrease some model counts

3. Conclusion: Processor Brand
Intel topped the list
Every 4 out 3 is a intel processor

4. Conclusion: Processor Name
Core i5 have more no of model then others
all top 3 are from same brand

Point to notice
more than one third of total laptop are running on latest generation of processor
where very few laptops are running on outdated processor

conclusion: RAM vs It's type
50 % laptop running on 8gb ram,
85% are having DDR4 ram, toping in evering category of ram
